An important aspect of learning.
The programmer's craft is learning on your own.
Python is so big that no matter how many hours of video the course has, we would never finish going
through every method and every property of every object that exists in Python.
That's why in this lecture we are going to learn how to use pie terms, context sensitive help and the
official Python documentation so that you can always have all the existing and up to date information
at hand.
We are going to put it into practice right now by delving a little bit deeper into the methods of Python's
own objects.
As we have seen, there are numerous objects in Python and we still have many to discover, and all
of them have, among other things, methods.
They are functions belonging to objects that allow you to manipulate them, analyze them, or make them
perform actions.
For example, we have seen that the string object has a method called LOTR, which modifies its contents,
an index method which gives us information about its contents and so on.
It is crucial that you can learn to find and interpret the meaning of the methods by yourself, because
all objects have many methods and we would never finish making videos for everything that exists.
Also, in the future you will work with other programmers libraries and they'll contain new objects
with hundreds of new methods.
This is what we will look into right now with PI term.
So as we have seen, all objects have their own methods.
Some we have learned and I've explained them in detail.
Others I have asked you to see in the notes that we have, we leave next to each lecture and some I
have not even explained, and you will discover them either throughout the course or in your own experience.
So let's say I'm working with dictionaries and those have their own methods.
I'm going to create one here named Dick that has a simple key one and has the number 100 as value.
And let's also create a key number two that has a value of 500.
And I want to apply some method to my dictionary.
You have already seen that in the way to see all the methods that each one of the objects has in invoking
to the instance of the object.
In my case, the variable dick dick that contains my dictionary.
Now I press the dot and python offers me a dropdown box with all the elements that this object has.
We can see some of them have this pink circle and the m these are all its methods.
We see that it has functions and we see that it has properties.
They are with the P here.
So let's focus on the methods for my dick object, which are actually the methods for every dictionary.
Some of them like for example, clear.
We already learned it and we've also learned keys items, but we haven't seen, for example, this pop
item method.
So if I click on it, it is automatically added.
And if I stop with the cursor and hover over it for a moment, I get the contextual help which will
appear and it will give me some information.
It tells me that this element is a dictionary type data dict down here.
It tells me that this method returns a table and it tells me that what it does is to eliminate and return
a pair composed by a key and a value like a total of two.
That is to say that it's going to choose an element of the dictionary.
It's going to eliminate it.
And also it is going to return it so I can store it.
It also informs me that the pairs are returned in LIFO leave for order, which means the last one in
is the first one out since the dictionaries are not ordered.
The order that the pop item will choose will be starting with the last element added to the dictionary,
then the one before that and so on.
In my case, key two would be the one that would come out first.
And here's a direct link to the documentation for this object.
Before we go there, I want to show you that if you open these three dots that you have here, you can
configure some things about these windows, for example.
I can adjust the font size if you need better glasses as I do.
There you can see it's a little bit better.
And here are some other things to configure, so check them out.
This has to do with pie charm, not python.
And if I want to go to the help, I can click here.
Now opens a window in my browser that takes me to the official Python documentation on the Python website.
And here we have pop item.
And it also tells me the same thing, plus some additional information.
And here is what it has changed in version 3.7.
The life out order has been guaranteed in previous versions.
It says pop item would have returned an arbitrary pair.
Notice that the documentation has absolutely everything related to Python.
Nothing is going to be missing from here.
And here you even have a table of contents where you can search for anything you want.
You have a search engine up here.
And if I am, for example, searching for some types of data here, I have the lists, the tables,
the ranges.
And if I choose tables, it will take me to the tables and all its information.
Here, you will never miss a thing.
Advantages of the official documentation.
It is accurate.
It is up to date and its official disadvantages are it's not written in a very pedagogical way.
That is to say, the cost of them being super precise is that they don't have any examples or many examples
that they are not very clear with the explanations.
Sometimes at the beginning of your career, you will want to look for more explanatory sites when you
need some extra help.
But always keep in mind the official documentation as the incontrovertible information.
You may not visit this site as often at the beginning of your career, but when you start working with
more complex things, you will be coming to the documentation almost every day.
So I also want you to know the inside pitch.
Another way to find help is to press the control key.
And now every time your cursor stops on some element, as you see, it is painted blue and already gives
you a contextual help.
And if I click there, it takes me to the class that corresponds to that object.
You are not yet able to read a class nor understand everything it has in here.
We're going to learn that later.
But for now, I wanted to let you know that if you press this control key and you stand over any element,
it's going to tell you a lot.
Pop item is a dict class and here's what it does, etc. So those are the helpers.
So now that we've learned this, we're able to use this new method pop item that I've just explained
to you now.
But if you were looking at it yourself, you'd be able to figure it out on your own.
I think so.
Now I know what it does and I can start playing with it.
It said here that it removes a pair from my dictionary.
Well, then we're going to store it in a variable A because the help said it returned the removed item.
So we'll put it in there.
And also while we're at it, let's print a to see what it looks like.
And also let's print the dictionary again to see what it looks like.
Once we remove the last item, see if the help is orientated as right, then we go to run and run.
We choose help, which is the name I gave to this file and we see that it has eliminated this element.
The last one that entered and the first one were to leave.
And it tells me that my dictionary only has the key one and the value 100.
So now my dictionary has only one element.
This is just an example of how you can move alone when you have to work with a method that you have
never learned and that no teacher has taught you well, there is a way for you to learn it on your own.
There are many elements.
Of course you still have the question and answer area of the course.
You never lose that, but you also have a way to gain independence.
And that's what I want you to be a self learning programmer going forward, because the truth, the
pure truth is that you'll never stop learning.
We're always learning.
We're always running into challenges that we don't have enough tools in our head.
Nobody has all the python in their head to get anything they need at any moment.
So you're going to look for material and you're going to research new methods, you're going to download
new things, and you're going to watch tutorials out there and you're going to need documentation and
help.
So thanks for joining me on this very important lecture.
And let's see what's coming up next.